Now that we have a basic idea of what a promise looks like and what's going on there,
it's time to get to one of the big benefits of using promises chaining.
One of the awesome things about promises is
how easy it is to create a sequence of events.
Here is the code example from the last section,
but with some new things added,
I've added a few more then clauses to form what's called a promise chain.
If we run this code,
we can see each letter alerted to the screen in order.
The first then clause handles a success response.
But usually if the response is successful,
we want to do something with the result or maybe many things with that result.
All of that logic for handling the success result data will happen in
the then clauses and we can chain as many of these clauses in a row as we want.
This example shows that then clauses run in order and only run when the promise resolves.
But otherwise, it's not a helpful example because there's no data.
So let's add that. Here's an example with data added.
When we force a promise to resolve using the result method,
we have the option to pass in data to mock the result of a real promise success.
In this case, I'm just passing in
an array of the letter sequence we used in the previous example.
This data is passed to the first then clause as an argument.
The first then clause prints out the first letter.
Remember that array shift is a mutating method.
It edits the original array by removing the first item and returning it.
So here I'm removing the first letter and console logging it.
Then I'm returning a shorter array.
Look, the shorter array ends up as the argument to the next then clause.
This is important to remember,
whatever is returned from a then clause
becomes the argument to the next clause in the chain.
Which is incredibly handy because it means we can edit
and change the shape of data as we pass it down the chain.
One more concept to cover and one more code example.
This is how we handle errors in promise chains.
When I run this code example,
you see that if the promise chain encounters an error at any point in the chain,
it stops the promise chain and runs the catch clause.
We will cover how to use this to our advantage later on.
Another little bonus if you haven't seen it before is this throw new Error syntax.
Sometimes it's nice to be able to create an error and pass it a message.
It comes in handy often for me when I'm writing JavaScript programs.
That was a lot.
So here's a two second recap.
We can chain then clauses.
They always run in order and we can make as many as we want.
Whatever is returned by a then clause becomes the argument to the next one.
If there is an error anywhere in the chain,
the chain is broken and the catch clause runs.